Method of Definition

A definition is a sufficiently distinct and delimited concept.
The definition alone is to be considered as a logically complete and perfect concept,
for in it the two most essential perfections of a concept are united:
distinctness, and, with distinctness, completeness and precision (quantity of distinctness).
All definitions are either analytic or synthetic.
The former are definitions of a given, the latter of a made concept,
either a priori or a posteriori.
The synthesis of made concepts from which spring synthetic definitions is either
that of exposition or that of construction.
All mathematical and empirical concepts must thus be considered as made concepts.
The synthesis of mathematical concepts is arbitrary.
The synthesis of empirical concepts is empirical.
A definition is nominal if it designates only the logical essence of the object,
or merely serves to distinguish it from other concepts.
A definition is real or material if it is sufficient for a cognition of the object
as to its inner determination by setting forth the possibility of the object
out of inner characteristics.
A definition is genetic if it gives a concept through which the object
can be exhibited a priori in concreto; such are all mathematical concepts.

Method of Division

Every concept contains a manifold under it so far as the manifold agrees,
but also in so far as it is different.
The determination of a concept in respect of everything possible contained under it,
so far as the elements are opposed to one another, i.e. differ from one another,
is called logical division of the concept.
The higher concept is called the divided concept and
the lower concepts are called the members of the division.
In every division of a concept it is to be heeded that
1) the members of the division exclude or are opposed to one another; further
2) they belong under a higher concept and, lastly, 
3) they all together make up the sphere of the divided concept or are equal to it.
A division into two members is called dichotomy;
if however it has more than two members it is called polytomy.
All polytomy is empirical;
dichotomy is the only division out of principles a priori -
thus the only primary divisions.
Dichotomy only needs the principle of contradiction.
